# Introduction
The susceptibility of Vanilla planifolia to certain fungal agents may be mediated by the interaction of the plant with its microbiomes. One of these fungi, Fusarium oxysporum, causes stem and root rot disease, which is particularly devastating in vanilla plantations. It has been observed that the diversity of microbiomes in the cultivation soil and the presence of certain microorganisms in the microbiomes influence the development of this disease. However, the role that the endophyte microbiome may be playing in the development of the disease has not been fully explored. Based on the sequencing analysis of the 16SrRNA and ITS markers, in this study we analyzed and compared the diversity of fungi and bacteria of endophytic microbiomes associated with roots and stems in asymptomatic and symptomatic plants, as well as in wild Vanilla planifolia plants. The study of the microbiomes of wild plants is a strategy to understand the role of the microbiome of wild plants in disease tolerance. In this repository, the procedure by which the bioinformatic analysis of the data was carried out is detailed. The first step was the quality control of the readings, OTU Clustering and Taxonomic Annotation. The second step was the analysis of alpha diversity and beta diversity, with their respective visualizations and hypothesis tests. The third step consisted of visualizing taxonomic diversity and comparing the abundance of taxa between groups. 
# Organization
This repository is divided in 4 directories: 
1.	**bin.** This directory has scripts necessary to bioinformatics processing and diversity analysis. It is divided in two subdirectories: a) Sequence processing, with necessary scripts in Shell for merge pairs sequences and their quality filter, identify chimeras sequence, OTU assignment and their taxonomy assignment and make OTU table; b) Diversity analysis, with scripts in R for normalization of data set, calculate alpha diversity and beta diversity and their visualizations and statistical analysis, and graphics of binning taxonomic. 
2.	**Data.** This directory has reference data base and parameters files necessary for sequence processing scripts. 
3.	**Meta.** It contains the OTU table of 16SrRNA data and other of ITS data.  It also contains the meta file with information of each sample and groups. 
4.	**Figures.** Graphics and visualizations that are files out of scripts in Diversity analysis directory. It aslo contained visualizations of exploratory analysis of sequence.
